Conflict, misery, and division define the history of Korvosa. Founded as an island fortress at the edge of a hostile and untamed land, Korvosa evolved over time into a bustling and energetic trade center. Several distinct periods define the history of Korvosa from its blood-splattered founding to its current turmoil.

Before the city’s founding, the site on which Korvosa stands was sacred to the Shoanti, although most have forgotten why. They knew only that the large pyramid atop the hill at the mouth of the river was to be guarded at all costs and that no one was ever to enter it. For hundreds of years, they kept this promise. In 4407 ar, Field Marshal Jakthion Korvosa rescued an abandoned group of Chelish marines trapped on a hostile island and founded Fort Korvosa. The settlement acted as a strong defensive position and trading post for settlers, pioneers, trappers, and explorers in the area. After much of the settlement burned during a Shoanti raid (an event known as the Great Fire), an influx of Chelish gold and tradesmen strengthened the settlement’s defenses and allowed its residents to move onto the mainland. An ill-fated insult against a very prominent Korvosan noble family sparked the Cousins’ War, in 4502 ar. The war ended Korvosa’s role as a military outpost and—with a further influx of Chelish nobility—made the settlement into a true colony. 
A period of great wealth followed, leading to a steady increase in size.

Korvosa’s prosperity came crashing down in 4606 ar, when the unexpected death of Aroden kicked off a civil war in Imperial Cheliax. Cut off from its homeland without a word, Korvosa survived these dark times. Today, the city prospers again, thanks to (or in some cases, despite) its self appointed royalty.